README.md, before:

## What

Yet another cond-like macro. 

```clojure
(macroexpand-1
  '(bitmatch [(foo? x) (bar? y) (baz? x)]
     [0 _ 1
      1 _ _] a
     [0 1 _] c
     [1 1 _] b
     [_ _ _] :default))

;=>
(if (foo? x)
  (if (bar? y) b a)
  (if (bar? y) c (if (baz? x) a :default)))
``` 

<br>Now you can rebind syntactic symbols to your liking with `binding`.
<br>Default bindings are:
```clojure
(def ^:dynamic *truthy* '#{1 T +})
(def ^:dynamic *falsy*  '#{0 F -})
(def ^:dynamic *any*    '#{_ .})
```

<br>Now supports enums (case).
<br>Each case junction requires default (`_` or `.`) handled explicitly,
so it yells at you at read time instead of at runtime like `case`:

```clojure
(macroexpand-1
  '(bitmatch
     [(odd? x) (enum1 y)]
     [- \x] "yo"
     [- \y] "sup"
     [.  .] "case default"))

;=>
(if (odd? x)
  "case default"
  (case (enum1 y)
    \x "yo"
    \y "sup"
    "case default"))

(meta *1)
;=>
{::tree (quote
          {TRUTHY {DEFAULT "case default"},
           FALSY  {\x      "yo"
                   \y      "sup"
                   DEFAULT "case default"}})}
```


## Install

```clojure
;; in deps.edn
{:deps {github-akovantsev/bitmatch
        {:git/url "https://github.com/akovantsev/bitmatch"
         :sha     "275ac6f26fde20b22453b7ddca10b362f0a62660"}}} ;; actual sha
```

## Why

Prunes branches: above, notice just 1 `(baz? x)` test instead of 4.

Throws at compile time:
- if there are unhandled cases (`case` throws at runtime, `cond` returns nil)
  ```clojure
   (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
     [1 0 _] a)
  
   Syntax error macroexpanding bitmatch at...
   (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
     [1 1 _] unhandled
     [0 _ _] unhandled)
   ```
- if there are exact literal pattern duplicates (written by hand), e.g:
  ```clojure
  (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
    [1 0 _] a
    [1 0 _] b)
  
  Syntax error macroexpanding bitmatch at...
    (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
      [1 0 _] duplicate)
  ```

Does not throw or warn
- if there are 2 different but matching patterns, e.g:
  ```clojure
  (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
    [1 0 _] a
    [1 0 1] b
    ...)
  ```
  but uses more specific one: `b`.

Pattern is more specific if (in comparator significance order):
1) it has fewer `_` (wildcards),
2) they occur further to the right in the pattern:
   ```clojure
   (sort by-specificity [[0 _] [0 1] [_ _] [1 1] [_ 1]])
   ;=> ([0 1] [1 1] [0 _] [_ 1] [_ _])
    ```

This means:
- clauses' order does not matter – group and reorder for readability
- predicates' order matters:
    - for execution order: which pred is tested first
    - for pattern specificity: may affect which out of several matching
      patterns will actually be used, e.g:
      ```clojure
      (bitmatch [foo bar]      vs.  (bitmatch [foo bar]
        [1 _] a                       [_ 1] a
        [_ 1] b                       [1 _] b
        [0 0] d)                      [0 0] d)

      (if foo a (if bar b d))  vs.  (if bar b (if foo a d))

      which is equivalent to:
      (if foo (if bar a a) (if bar b d))
      (if bar (if foo b b) (if foo a d))

      which is equivalent to:
      (if foo (if bar a a) (if bar b d))
                      ^----------------- [1 1] a
      (if foo (if bar b a) (if bar b d))
                      ^----------------- [1 1] b
      ```
    Sometimes this makes things hard to reason about, but so does `cond` clauses' order ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.

Commit message:

fix rebindings, add more debug output

README.md, after:

## What

Yet another cond-like macro. 

```clojure
(macroexpand-1
  '(bitmatch [(foo? x) (bar? y) (baz? x)]
     [0 _ 1
      1 _ _] a
     [0 1 _] c
     [1 1 _] b
     [_ _ _] :default))

;=>
(if (foo? x)
  (if (bar? y) b a)
  (if (bar? y) c (if (baz? x) a :default)))
``` 

<br>Now you can rebind syntactic symbols to your liking ~~with binding~~.
<br>Defaults are:
```clojure
(def ^:dynamic *truthy* '#{1 T +})
(def ^:dynamic *falsy*  '#{0 F -})
(def ^:dynamic *any*    '#{_ .})
```
Apparently `binding` works for `macroexpand-1`, but does not work for macroexpansion of "actual" source code,
so you gotta supply overrides as meta instead (note keys are keywords, not syms; and unquoted values):
```clojure
(let [x "truthy"]
  ^?                ;; btw, ^anysymbol is a "debug shortcut"
  ^{:*truthy* #{t}} ;; vals replace defaults, not amend.
  (bitmatch [x]
    [t] 1
    [-] 2))
;; <redacted printed out debug info, 
;; like match tree, column types and domains>
=> 1
```


<br>Now supports enums (case).
<br>Each case junction requires default (`_` or `.`) handled explicitly,
so it yells at you at read time instead of at runtime like `case`:

```clojure
(macroexpand-1
  '(bitmatch
     [(odd? x) (enum1 y)]
     [- \x] "yo"
     [- \y] "sup"
     [.  .] "case default"))

;=>
(if (odd? x)
  "case default"
  (case (enum1 y)
    \x "yo"
    \y "sup"
    "case default"))

(meta *1)
;=>
{::tree (quote
          {TRUTHY {DEFAULT "case default"},
           FALSY  {\x      "yo"
                   \y      "sup"
                   DEFAULT "case default"}})}
```


## Install

```clojure
;; in deps.edn
{:deps {github-akovantsev/bitmatch
        {:git/url "https://github.com/akovantsev/bitmatch"
         :sha     "275ac6f26fde20b22453b7ddca10b362f0a62660"}}} ;; actual sha
```

## Why

Prunes branches: above, notice just 1 `(baz? x)` test instead of 4.

Throws at compile time:
- if there are unhandled cases (`case` throws at runtime, `cond` returns nil)
  ```clojure
   (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
     [1 0 _] a)
  
   Syntax error macroexpanding bitmatch at...
   (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
     [1 1 _] unhandled
     [0 _ _] unhandled)
   ```
- if there are exact literal pattern duplicates (written by hand), e.g:
  ```clojure
  (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
    [1 0 _] a
    [1 0 _] b)
  
  Syntax error macroexpanding bitmatch at...
    (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
      [1 0 _] duplicate)
  ```

Does not throw or warn
- if there are 2 different but matching patterns, e.g:
  ```clojure
  (bitmatch [foo bar baz]
    [1 0 _] a
    [1 0 1] b
    ...)
  ```
  but uses more specific one: `b`.

Pattern is more specific if (in comparator significance order):
1) it has fewer `_` (wildcards),
2) they occur further to the right in the pattern:
   ```clojure
   (sort by-specificity [[0 _] [0 1] [_ _] [1 1] [_ 1]])
   ;=> ([0 1] [1 1] [0 _] [_ 1] [_ _])
    ```

This means:
- clauses' order does not matter – group and reorder for readability
- predicates' order matters:
    - for execution order: which pred is tested first
    - for pattern specificity: may affect which out of several matching
      patterns will actually be used, e.g:
      ```clojure
      (bitmatch [foo bar]      vs.  (bitmatch [foo bar]
        [1 _] a                       [_ 1] a
        [_ 1] b                       [1 _] b
        [0 0] d)                      [0 0] d)

      (if foo a (if bar b d))  vs.  (if bar b (if foo a d))

      which is equivalent to:
      (if foo (if bar a a) (if bar b d))
      (if bar (if foo b b) (if foo a d))

      which is equivalent to:
      (if foo (if bar a a) (if bar b d))
                      ^----------------- [1 1] a
      (if foo (if bar b a) (if bar b d))
                      ^----------------- [1 1] b
      ```
    Sometimes this makes things hard to reason about, but so does `cond` clauses' order ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.
